# Conditional Statement

Now, it is time to give our backup script some logic by including few conditional statements. Conditionals allow the programmer to implement decision making within a shell script based on certain conditions or events.

The conditionals we are referring to are of course, `if`, `then` and `else`. For example, we can improve our backup script by implementing a sanity check to compare the number of files and directories within a source directory we intend to backup and the resulting backup file. The pseudocode for this kind of implementation will read as follows:

Let's start by creating a simple bash script depicting a basic `if/then/else` construct.

```bash
#!/bin/bash

num_a=100
num_b=200

if [ $num_a -lt $num_b ]; then
    echo "$num_a is less than $num_b!"
fi
```

For now the `else` conditional was deliberately left out, we will include it once we understand the logic behind the above script. Save the script as, eg. `if_else.sh` and execute it:

Lines 3-4 are used to initialize an integer variables. On Line 6 we begin an if conditional block. We further compare both variables and if the comparison evaluation yields true, then on Line 7 the echo command will inform us, that the value within the variable `$num_a` is less when compared with the variable `$num_b`. Lines 8 closes our `if` conditional block with a `fi` keyword.

The important observation to make from the script execution is that, in the situation when the variable `$num_a` greater than `$num_b` our script fails to react. This is where the last piece of the puzzle, `else` conditional comes in handy. Update your script by adding else block and execute it:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

num_a=400
num_b=200

if [ $num_a -lt $num_b ]; then
    echo "$num_a is less than $num_b!"
else
    echo "$num_a is greater than $num_b!"
fi
```
The Line 8 now holds the `else` part of our conditional block. If the comparison evaluation on Line 6 reports `false` the code below `else` statement, in our case Line 9 is executed.

