# Configuration

Once you have a remote repo setup, you will need to add a remote repo url to your local git config, and set an upstream branch for your local branches. The git remote command offers such utility:
- `git remote add <remote_name> <remote_repo_url>`

This command will map remote repository at  to a ref in your local repo under. Once you have mapped the remote repo you can push local branches to it:
- `git push -u <remote_name> <local_branch_name>`

This command will push the local repo branch under `<local_branch_name>` to the remote repo at `<remote_name>`.

**Note:** If you clone a repo, your remote is already set up. You can see the list of remotes by running `git remote -v`.

## Git Config Levels
In addition to configuring a remote repo URL, you may also need to set global Git configuration options such as username, or email. The `git config` command lets you configure your Git installation (or an individual repository) from the command line. This command can define everything from user info, to preferences, to the behavior of a repository. Several common configuration options are listed below.

Git stores configuration options in three separate files, which lets you scope options to individual repositories (local), user (Global), or the entire system (system):
- Local: `/.git/config` – **Repository-specific** settings.

By default, `git config` will write to a local level if no configuration option is passed. Local level configuration is applied to the context repository `git config` gets invoked in. Local configuration values are stored in a file that can be found in the repo's .git directory: .git/config

- Global: `/.gitconfig` – **User-specific** settings. This is where options set with the --global flag are stored.

Global level configuration is user-specific, meaning it is applied to an operating system user. Global configuration values are stored in a file that is located in a user's home directory. `~/.gitconfig` on unix systems and `C:\Users\\.gitconfig on windows

- System: `$(prefix)/etc/gitconfig` – **System-wide** settings.

System-level configuration is applied across an entire machine. This covers all users on an operating system and all repos. The system level configuration file lives in a gitconfig file off the system root path. `$(prefix)/etc/gitconfig` on unix systems. On windows this file can be found at `C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Git\config` on Windows XP, and in `C:\ProgramData\Git\config` on Windows Vista and newer.

Thus the order of priority for configuration levels is: local, global, system. This means when looking for a configuration value, Git will start at the local level and bubble up to the system level.

## Writing a Value
Expanding on what we already know about `git config`, let's look at a few example in which we write a value:

Define the author name to be used for all commits in the current repository. Typically, you’ll want to use the --global flag to set configuration options for the current user.

Define the author name to be used for all commits by the current user.
```
git config --global user.name <name>
```

Adding the `--local` option or not passing a config level option at all, will set the user.name for the current local repository.
```
git config --local user.email <email>
```

Create a **shortcut** (**alias**) for a Git command. This is a powerful utility to create custom shortcuts for commonly used git commands. A simplistic example would be:

```bash
git config --global alias.hist "log --oneline"
```
This creates a `git hist` command that you can execute as a shortcut to `git log --oneline`.

To open the local/global/system wide configuration file in a text editor for manual editing:
```
git config --global --edit
```
## Git Editor
Many Git commands will launch a text editor to prompt for further input. One of the most common use cases for `git config` is configuring which editor Git should use. Listed below is a table of popular editors and matching `git config` commands:


|Editor|Config Command|
|:--|:--|
|Atom|`git config --global core.editor "atom --wait"`}
|emacs|`git config --global core.editor "emacs"`|
|nano|`git config --global core.editor "nano -w"`|
|vim|`git config --global core.editor "vim"`|
|Sublime Text (Mac)|`git config --global core.editor "subl -n -w"`|
|Sublime Text (Win, 32-bit install)|`git config --global core.editor "'c:/program files (x86)/sublime text 3/sublimetext.exe' -w"`|
|Sublime Text (Win, 64-bit install)|`git config --global core.editor "'c:/program files/sublime text 3/sublimetext.exe' -w"`|
|Textmate|`git config --global core.editor "mate -w"`|