# Wildcards
Wild cards are very useful tools that will make your commands a lot more precise a lot more expressive and a lot more powerful.

We're going to learn about the most common types of wildcards.

## `*` (Asterisk)
This can represent any number of characters (including zero, in other words, zero or more characters).

For example, `ls` command will list the contents of every directory that we give it a valid path to.

But what if we wanted to have a look at what's inside our documents folder our downloads folder and our Pictures folder at the same time?

```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ ls Documents/ Downloads/
Documents/:
file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt

Downloads/:
file1.txt
```

But you can see how manual of a process this was.

Now wildcards are basically special symbols that the shell interprets to have a special meaning. The idea behind wildcards is to build up powerful patterns known as regular expressions so that instead of typing out every command line argument manually you can instead say something like hey linux make this command act on anything that matches this pattern.

And then one of the most used wildcards is the asterisk or the star wildcard. **Star wildcard matches anything.**
```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ ls D*
Documents/:
file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt

Downloads/:
file1.txt
```
and `ls *` will match everything and will show the contents of all directories.

**Note:** Wildcards are case sensitive. So `ls D*` and `ls d*` will have different results.

If you want to list all text file:
```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ ls *.txt
file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt file4.txt file5.txt
```

## `?` (Question Mark)
This can represent any single character. If you specified something at the command line like `hd?` GNU/Linux would look for `hda`, `hdb`, `hdc` and every other letter/number between `a-z`, `0-9`.

```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ ls ???e.txt
file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt file4.txt file5.txt
```

## `[]` (Square Brackets)
Specifies a range. If you did `m[a,o,u]m` it can become: `mam`, `mum`, `mom` if you did: `m[a-d]m` it can become anything that starts and ends with `m` and has any character `a` to `d` inbetween. For example, these would work: `mam`, `mbm`, `mcm`, `mdm`. This kind of wildcard specifies an **or** relationship (you only need one to match).

```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ ls file[1-3].txt
file1.txt  file2.txt  file3.txt
$user@computer-name:~$ ls file[245].txt
file2.txt  file4.txt  file5.txt
$user@computer-name:~$ ls file[0-9][0-9].txt
file11.txt
```

**Note:** You can have combinations of capital letters, numbers, etc. such as `file[a-zA-Z0-9].txt`

## `{}` (Curly Brackets)
Terms are separated by commas and each term must be the name of something or a wildcard. This wildcard will copy anything that matches either wildcard(s), or exact name(s) (an `or` relationship, one or the other).

For example, `ls {*.txt,*.png}` matches all files with either `.txt` or `.png` extension.
```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ ls {*.txt,*.png}
file1.txt file2.txt  file3.txt  file4.txt  file5.txt  image1.png  image2.png  image3.png
```

## `\` (backslash)
Is used as an **escape** character, i.e. to protect a subsequent special character. Thus, `\\` searches for a backslash. Note you may need to use quotation marks and backslash(es).

## `[^]`
This construct is similar to the [ ] construct, except rather than matching any characters inside the brackets, it'll match any character, as long as it is not listed between the [ and ]. This is a logical NOT. For example `rm myfile[^9]` will remove all `myfiles*` (ie. `myfiles1`, `myfiles2` etc) but won't remove a file with the number 9 anywhere within it's name.

```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ ls file[^2].txt
file1.txt  file3.txt  file4.txt  file5.txt
$user@computer-name:~$ ls file[^2-4].txt
file1.txt file5.txt
```

## Summary
- Wildcards are used to build patterns called "regular expression"
- Anything that matches the pattern will be passed as a command line argument to a command.
- Covered wildcards:
    - `*`
    - `?`
    - `[]`
    - `{}`
    - `[^]`