# Creating Files and Directories

You're going to learn how to use the `touch` and the `mkdir` are commands to create files and directories.

## `touch`
`touch` command can create new empty files.

```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ touch file1.txt
$user@computer-name:~$ touch /home/user/file1.txt
```

You can directly create file and put contents in it with `echo`:
```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ echo "Hello World!" > hello.txt
```

## `mkdir`
The `mkdir` command in Linux/Unix allows users to create or make new directories. `mkdir` stands for **make directory**

```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ mkdir newfolder
$user@computer-name:~$ touch /home/user/newfolder
```

Let's say I wanted to create `dir1/dir2/dir3`. OK but I can't go ahead and make that in one go because it is going to give us an error and it's going to say that the folder doesn't exist.

This is because the shell tried to go to `dir1` then `dir2`, and then create `dir3`.

You can make this work by adding `-p` option:
```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ mkdir -p dir1/dir2/dir3
```

**Note:** Try to avoid having spaces in directory/file names. It is a nightmare in linux. Instead use `_`. If you insist on having spaces, use quotations:
```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ mkdir "new folder"
```

## Brace Expansion
Brace expansion is a mechanism by which arbitrary strings may be generated.

So let's say that you're working on a big five year project and every month you need to write a 100 memo files to keep track of the project and the folder should be named something like _Jan 2017_, _FEB 2017_, _March 2017, and so on and so on for five years.

How can you create those files and folders up front?

Well doing it graphically would be horrific. There's actually just no way around it.

We're going to use a powerful feature of the shell known as **Brace Expansion**.

We create all these directories in `project` directory:
```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ mkdir project
$user@computer-name:~$ cd prject
$user@computer-name:~$ mkdir {jan,feb,mar,apr,may,jun,july,aug,sep,oct,nov,dec}_{2017,2018,2019,2020,2021,2022}
```

You can then create `file1.txt` to `file100.txt` in each directory.
```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ touch {jan,feb,mar,apr,may,jun,july,aug,sep,oct,nov,dec}_{2017,2018,2019,2020,2021,2022}/file{1..100}.txt
```

Brace expansion isn't only possible for the `touch` and `mkdir` commands. It's actually usable across the whole shelf.
```bash
$user@computer-name:~$ ls {jan,feb,mar,apr,may,jun,july,aug,sep,oct,nov,dec}_{2017,2018}
```
