# Viewing Files

Linux provides a number of commands for viewing files. In this tutorial, we’ll look at the most commonly used `cat`, `more` and `less` commands.

## `cat`
The cat command is the simplest way to view the contents of a file. It displays the contents of the file(s) specified on to the output terminal.

```bash
cat file.txt
```
Sometimes, we might want to number the lines in the output.

We can do this by using the -n option:
```
cat -n file.txt
```

You can concatenate many files and display them:
```bash
cat file_1.txt file_2.txt
```

## `tac` and `rev`
`tac` is the reverse version of `cat` horizontally (linewise) meaning that the last line will be displayed first and the first line last.
```bash
tac file.txt
```

`rev` is the reverse version of `cat` vertically (characterwise) meaning that the last character will be displayed first and the first character last.
```bash
tac file.txt
```



## `more`
The `cat` command is all well and good for small files. But, if the file is large, the contents will zoom past and we’ll only see the last screen worth of content.

The `more` command displays the contents of the file one screen at a time for large files. If the contents of the file fit a single screen, the output will be the same as the `cat` command.

```
more large-file.txt
```
The cursor will stay at the end of this text. Then, we can scroll through the contents of the file using the **Enter** key, one line at a time.

We can also scroll through the file page by page by using the **Space bar**. And to scroll back to the previous page, we can use the b key. We’ll use the `q` key to go back to the command prompt.

The more command can also be used to view multiple files. We just have to list each of them one after another:

```bash
more file.txt large-file.txt
```

Along with files, we can also pipe the more command with the output of other commands:
```bash
find . | more
ls -l | more
```

Let’s suppose we want to view only a certain number of lines at a time. We can do this by specifying the number of lines as an option:

```bash
more -5 large-file.txt
```
This will display the first 5 lines of the file instead of a screen worth of content.

We can also specify the line number in the file from where we want to start viewing the content:
```bash
more +5 file.txt
```

## `less`
Now, let’s move to the less command. The less command is similar to the more command but provides extensive features. Since it does not read the entire file before starting, it starts up faster compared to text editors — especially when we’re viewing large files.

```bash
less file.txt
```

Read more: [more-vs-less](More and Less Differences)

## `head` and `tail`
As their names imply, the `head` command will output the first part of the file, while the `tail` command will print the last part of the file. Both commands write the result to standard output.

```bash
head file.txt
tail file.txt
```
With the `-n` option, we can let the head command output the first `n` lines instead of the default `10`.
```bash
# first 3 lines
head -n 3 file.txt

# last 3 lines
head -n -3 file.txt

# last 3 lines
tail -n -3 file.txt
tail -n 3 file.txt
```

Use the head and the tail Together to show lines 5, 6, and 7.
```bash
head -n 7 file.txt | tail -n 3
```

## Sorting Data
Sort file alphabetically
```bash
sort file.txt

# reverse sort
sort -r file.txt
sort file.txt | tac
```

Sort file numerically:
```bash
sort -n file.txt
sort -nr file.txt
```

Sort and get unique results only:
```bash
sort -u file.txt
sort -nu file.txt
```

### Sort by the Column
You can sort tabular data using the `-k` option:
```bash
# sort the second column alphabeticall
ls -l | sort -k 2

# sort the second column numerically
ls -l | sort -k 2n

# sort the second column numerically but in reverse order
ls -l | sort -k 2nr

# sort the fifth column in human readable format
ls -l | sort -k 5h

# sort by month
ls -lh / | sort -k 6M
```

**Note:**
- 2nr means sort using column `3` and use the `-n` and `-r` options.
- To sort human-readable data use the `-h` option not `-n`.
- To sort month data use the `-M` option.
