# Script Execution

Next, let's talk about an alternative way on how to run bash scripts. In a highly simplistic view, a bash script is nothing else just a text file containing instructions to be executed in order from top to bottom. How the instructions are interpreted depends on defined shebang or the way the script is executed.

Another way to execute bash scripts is to call bash interpreter explicitly eg. `$ bash date.sh`, hence executing the script without the need to make the shell script executable and without declaring shebang directly within a shell script. By calling bash executable binary explicitly, the content of our file `date.sh` is loaded and interpreted as Bash Shell Script.

## Hello World Bash Shell Script

Now, it is time to write our first, most basic bash shell script. The whole purpose of this script is nothing else but print "Hello World" using `echo` command to the terminal output. Using any text editor create a new file named `hello-world.sh` containing the below code:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

echo "Hello World"
```

Once ready, make your script executable with thechmod command and execute it using relative path `./hello-world.sh`:

```bash
$ chmod +x hello-world.sh
$ linuxconfig.org:~$ ./hello-world.sh
Hello World
```

## Simple Backup Bash Shell Script
Let's discuss a command line execution and how GNU/Linux commands fit into the shell script creation process in more detail.

Any command which can be successfully executed directly via bash shell terminal can be in the same form used as part of bash shell script. In fact, there is no difference between command execution directly via terminal or within a shell script apart from the fact that the shell script offers non-interactive execution of multiple commands as a single process.

The next example offers more practical application as it can be used to backup our user home directory. To create the backup script, we will be using `tar` command with various options `-czf` in order to create a compressed tar ball of entire user home directory `/home/linuxconfig/`. Insert the following code into a new file called `backup.sh`, make the script executable and run it:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

tar -czf /tmp/myhome_directory.tar.gz /home/linuxconfig
```