# Variables

Variables are the essence of programming. Variables allow a programmer to store data, alter and reuse them throughout the script. Create a new script `welcome.sh` with the following content:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

greeting="Welcome"
user=$(whoami)
day=$(date +%A)

echo "$greeting back $user! Today is $day, which is the best day of the entire week!"
echo "Your Bash shell version is: $BASH_VERSION. Enjoy!"
```

By now you should possess all required skills needed to create a new script, making it executable and running it on the command line. After running the above welcome.sh script, you will see an output similar to the one below:

```bash
$ ./welcome.sh
Welcome back linuxconfig! Today is Wednesday, which is the best day of the entire week!
Your Bash shell version is: 4.4.12(1)-release. Enjoy!
```

Let's look at the script more closely. First, we have declared a variable `greeting` and assigned a string value `Welcome` to it. The next variable `user` contains a value of user name running a shell session. This is done through a technique called command substitution. Meaning that the output of the `whoami` command will be directly assigned to the user variable. The same goes for our next variable `day` which holds a name of today's day produced by `date +%A` command.

The second part of the script utilises the `echo` command to print a message while substituting variable names now prefixed by `$` sign with their relevant values. In case you wonder about the last variable used `$BASH_VERSION` know that this is a so called internal variable defined as part of your shell.

**Note:** Never name your private variables using UPPERCASE characters. This is because uppercase variable names are reserved for internal shell variables, and you run a risk of overwriting them. This may lead to the dysfunctional or misbehaving script execution.

Variables can also be used directly on the terminal's command line. The following example declares variables `a` and `b` with integer data. Using `echo` command, we can print their values or even perform an arithmetic operation as illustrated by the following example:

```bash
a=4
b=8
echo $a
echo $b
echo $[$a + $b]
```

Now that we have bash variable introduction behind us we can update our backup script to produce more meaningful output file name by incorporating a date and time when the backup on our home directory was actually performed.

Furthermore, the script will no longer be bind to a specific user. From now on our `backup.sh` bash script can be run by any user while still backing up a correct user home directory:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# This bash script is used to backup a user's home directory to /tmp/.

user=$(whoami)
input=/home/$user
output=/tmp/${user}_home_$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H%M%S).tar.gz

tar -czf $output $input
echo "Backup of $input completed! Details about the output backup file:"
ls -l $output
```

You may have already noticed that the above script introduces two new bash scripting concepts. Firstly, our new `backup.sh` script contains comment line. Every line starting with # sign except shebang will not be interpreted by bash and will only serve as a programmer's internal note.

Secondly, the script uses a new shell scripting trick `${parameter}` called parameter expansion. In our case, curly braces `{}` are required because our variable `$user` is followed by characters which are not part of its variable name.

