# Input, Output and Error Redirections

Normally commands executed on GNU/Linux command line either produce output, require input or throw an error message. This is a fundamental concept for shell scripting as well as for working with GNU/Linux's command line in general.

Every time, you execute a command, three possible outcomes might happen. The first scenario is that the command will produce an expected output, second, the command will generate an error, and lastly, your command might not produce any output at all.

Back to our `backup.sh` script. When executing our backup script, you may have noticed an extra message display by tar command:

```bash
tar: Removing leading `/' from member names
```

Despite the message's informative nature, it is sent to **stderr** descriptor. In a nutshell, the message is telling us that the absolute path has been removed thus extraction of the compressed file not overwrite any existing files.

Now that we have a basic understanding of the output redirection we can eliminate this unwanted **stderr** message by redirecting it with `2>` notation to `/dev/null`. Imagine `/dev/null` as a data sink, which discards any data redirected to it. For more information run `man null`. Below is our new `backup.sh` version including tar's **stderr** redirection:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# This bash script is used to backup a user's home directory to /tmp/.

user=$(whoami)
input=/home/$user
output=/tmp/${user}_home_$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H%M%S).tar.gz

tar -czf $output $input 2> /dev/null
echo "Backup of $input completed! Details about the output backup file:"
ls -l $output
```

After executing a new version of our backup.sh script, no tar stderr message will be displayed.

