# Functions

It is possible to avoid using functions and write any script without including a single function in it. However, you are likely to end up with a chunky, inefficient and hard to troubleshoot code.

You can think of the function as a way to the group number of different commands into a single command. This can be extremely useful if the output or calculation you require consists of multiple commands, and it will be expected multiple times throughout the script execution. Functions are defined by using the function keyword and followed by function body enclosed by curly brackets.

The syntax for declaring a bash function is straightforward. Functions may be declared in two different formats:

1. The first format starts with the function name, followed by parentheses. This is the preferred and more used format.
```bash
function_name () {
  commands
}
```

Single line version:
```bash
function_name () { commands; }
```

2. The second format starts with the reserved word `function`, followed by the function name.

```bash
function function_name {
  commands
}
```

Single line version:
```bash
function function_name { commands; }
```

- The commands between the curly braces (`{}`) are called the body of the function. The curly braces must be separated from the body by spaces or newlines.
- Defining a function doesn’t execute it. To invoke a bash function, simply use the function name. Commands between the curly braces are executed whenever the function is called in the shell script.
- The function definition must be placed before any calls to the function.
- When using single line “compacted” functions, a semicolon `;` must follow the last command in the function.
- Always try to keep your function names descriptive.

## Function with Input
To call a function with arguments:

```bash
function_name "$arg1" "$arg2"
```

The function refers to passed arguments by their position (not by name), that is $1, $2, and so forth. $0 is the name of the script itself.

```bash
foo 1  # this will fail because foo has not been declared yet.

foo() {
    echo "Parameter #1 is $1"
}

foo 2 # this will work.
```

## Return Output
Bash functions, unlike functions in most programming languages do not allow you to return a value to the caller. When a bash function ends its return value is its status: zero for success, non-zero for failure. To return values, you can set a global variable with the result, or use command substitution, or you can pass in the name of a variable to use as the result variable. The examples below describe these different mechanisms.

1. The simplest way to return a value from a bash function is to just set a global variable to the result. Since all variables in bash are global by default this is easy:

```bash
function myfunc()
{
    myresult='some value'
}

myfunc
echo $myresult
```
The code above sets the global variable myresult to the function result. Reasonably simple, but as we all know, using global variables, particularly in large programs, can lead to difficult to find bugs.

2. A better approach is to use local variables in your functions. The problem then becomes how do you get the result to the caller. One mechanism is to use command substitution:

```bash
function myfunc()
{
    local  myresult='some value'
    echo "$myresult"
}

result=$(myfunc)   # or result=`myfunc`
echo $result
```
Here the result is output to the stdout and the caller uses command substitution to capture the value in a variable. The variable can then be used as needed.

```bash
function myfunc()
{
    local  __resultvar=$1
    local  myresult='some value'
    eval $__resultvar="'$myresult'"
}

myfunc result
echo $result
```

## Example
The following example defines a simple shell function to be used to print user details and will make two function calls, thus printing user details twice upon a script execution.

The function name is `user_details`, and function body enclosed inside curly brackets consists of the group of two `echo` commands. Every time a function call is made by using the function name, both `echo` commands within our function definition are executed. It is important to point out that the function definition must precede function call, otherwise the script will return `function not found` error:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

funciton user_detail {
    echo "User Name: $(whoami)"
    echo "Home Directory: $HOME"
}
```

As illustrated by the above video example the `user_details` function grouped multiple commands in a single new command `user_details`.

The `echo` commands within the `user_details` function definition were deliberately shifted one TAB right which makes our code more readable, easier to troubleshot.


