# Loops

So far our backup script functions as expected and its usability has been substantially increased in comparison with the initial code introduced at the beginning of this scripting tutorial. We can now easily backup any user directory by pointing the script to user's home directory using positional parameters during the script's execution.

The trouble only arises when we need to backup multiple user directories on a daily basis. Hence this task will very quickly become tedious and time-consuming. At this stage, it would be great to have the means to backup any number of selected user home directories with a single backup.sh script execution.

Fortunately, bash has us covered, as this task can be accomplished by use of loops. Loops are looping constructs used to iterate through any given number of tasks until all items in a specified list were completed or predefined conditions were met. There are three basic loop types available to our disposal.

## For Loop

For loop is used to iterate through any given code for any number of supplied items in the list. Let's start with a simple for loop example:

```bash
for i in 1 2 3; do echo $i; done
```

The above for loop has used the echo command to print all items 1, 2 and 3 in the list. Using a semicolon allows us to execute for loop on a single command line. If we were to transfer the above for loop into a bash script, the code would look like follows:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

for i in 1 2 3; do
    echo $i
done
```

The for loop consists of four Shell Reserved Words: `for`, `in`, `do`, `done`. The above code can therefore also be read as: FOReach item INlist 1, 2 and 3 assign each item temporarily into a variable `i` after which DO `echo $i` in order to print the item as `STDOUT` and keep printing until all items INthe list are DONE.

Printing numbers is undoubtedly fun but let's try something more meaningful instead. Using command substitution as explained earlier in this tutorial we can create any kind of list to be a part of for loop construct. The following slightly more sophisticated for loop example will count characters of each line for any given file:

```bash
for i in $(cat items.txt); do
    echo -n $i | wc -c;
done
```

## While Loop

he next loop construct on our list is while loop. This particular loop acts on a given condition. Meaning, it will keep executing code enclosed withing DOand DONEwhile the specified condition is true. Once the specified condition becomes false, the execution will stop. Consider the following example:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
counter=0
while [ $counter -lt 3 ]; do
    let counter+=1
    echo $counter
done
```
