# Checkout

This page is an examination of the `git checkout` command. It will cover usage examples and edge cases. In Git terms, a "checkout" is the act of switching between different versions of a target entity

## Checking out Branches
The `git checkout` command lets you navigate between the branches created by git branch. Checking out a branch updates the files in the working directory to match the version stored in that branch, and it tells Git to record all new commits on that branch. Think of it as a way to select which line of development you’re working on.

## Usage: Existing branches
Assuming the repo you're working in contains pre-existing branches, you can switch between these branches using `git checkout`. To find out what branches are available and what the current branch name is, execute `git branch`.

```
$ git branch
main
feature_inprogress_branch
$ git checkout feature_inprogress_branch
```
The above example demonstrates how to view a list of available branches by executing the git branch command, and switch to a specified branch, in this case, the `feature_inprogress_branch`.

## New Branches
`git checkout` works hand-in-hand with `git branch`. The `git branch` command can be used to create a new branch. When you want to start a new feature, you create a new branch off master using `git branch` `new_branch`. Once created you can then use `git checkout new_branch` to switch to that branch. Additionally, The `git checkout` command accepts a `-b` argument that acts as a convenience method which will create the new branch and immediately switch to it. You can work on multiple features in a single repository by switching between them with `git checkout`.
```
git checkout -b
```
The above example simultaneously creates and checks out . The `-b` option is a convenience flag that tells Git to run `git branch` before running `git checkout`.