05. Git/01. Introduction/03. Installation.md, before:

# Installation

The first two things you'll want to do are install git and create a free GitHub account.

Follow the instructions [here](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/install-git) to install git (if it's not already installed).

Note that for this tutorial we will be using git on the command line only. While there are some great git GUIs (graphical user interfaces), it's easier to learn git using git-specific commands first and then to try out a git GUI once you're more comfortable with the command.

Once you've done that, create a GitHub account [here](https://github.com/).

## Git vs. Github
Git and GitHub are not the same thing. Git is an open-source, version control tool created in 2005 by developers working on the Linux operating system; GitHub is a company founded in 2008 that makes tools which integrate with git. You do not need GitHub to use git, but you cannot use GitHub without using git. There are many other alternatives to GitHub, such as GitLab, BitBucket, and “host-your-own” solutions such as gogs and gittea. All of these are referred to in git-speak as “remotes”, and all are completely optional. You do not need to use a remote to use git, but it will make sharing your code with others easier.

Commit message:

Add links, more examples and fix typos
Add framagit and self-managed gitlab to hosting examples.
Add appropriate links to projects and websites.
fix some typos (trademark name's capitalization and "Gitea")

05. Git/01. Introduction/03. Installation.md, after:

# Installation

The first two things you'll want to do are install git and create a free GitHub account.

Follow the instructions [here](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/install-git) to install git (if it's not already installed).

Note that for this tutorial we will be using git on the command line only. While there are some great git GUIs (graphical user interfaces), it's easier to learn git using git-specific commands first and then to try out a git GUI once you're more comfortable with the command.

Once you've done that, create a GitHub account [here](https://github.com/).

## Git vs. Github
Git and GitHub are not the same thing. Git is an open-source, version control tool created in 2005 by developers working on the Linux operating system; GitHub is a company founded in 2008 that makes tools which integrate with git. You do not need GitHub to use git, but you cannot use GitHub without using git. There are many other alternatives to GitHub, such as [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/), [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/), [Framagit](https://framagit.org/), and “host-your-own” solutions such as [Gogs](https://gogs.io/), [self-hosted GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/install/) and [Gitea](https://gitea.io/). All of these are referred to in git-speak as “remotes”, and all are completely optional. You do not need to use a remote to use git, but it will make sharing your code with others easier.
