# Introduction

## What is a Version Control System?
You can think of a version control system (VCS) as a kind of "database". It lets you save a snapshot of your complete project at any time you want. When you later take a look at an older snapshot (let's start calling it "version"), your VCS shows you exactly how it differed from the previous one.

A Version Control System (VCS) allows you to revert files back to a previous state, revert the entire project back to a previous state, review changes made over time, see who last modified something that might be causing a problem, who introduced an issue and when, and more. Using a VCS also means that if you screw things up or lose files, you can generally recover easily. And sometimes you just want to know "who wrote this crap", and having access to that information is worthwhile?

## Why Source Control
- Backup / Archive
- Versioning / History
- Undo Changes
- Comparing
- Collaboration / Teamwork
- Blame! / Learning Moment
- Isolation of Changes
- Experimentation
- Context Switching
- Code Review

## Centralized vs. Distributed VCS

### Centralized Version Control
Centralized version control systems are based on the idea that there is a single “central” copy of your project somewhere (probably on a server), and programmers will “commit” their changes to this central copy.

With Centralized version control, programmers no longer have to keep many copies of files on their hard drives manually, because the version control tool can talk to the central copy and retrieve any version they need on the fly.

Note: In centralized version control, programmer needs connection to central server for most operations.

### Distributed Version Control

These systems do not necessarily rely on a central server to store all the versions of a project’s files. Instead, every developer “clones” a copy of a repository and has the full history of the project on their own hard drive. This copy (or “clone”) has all of the metadata of the original.

This method may sound wasteful, but in practice, it’s not a problem. Most programming projects consist mostly of plain text files (and maybe a few images), and disk space is so cheap that storing many copies of a file doesn’t create a noticable dent in a hard drive’s free space. Modern systems also compress the files to use even less space.

One common misconception about distributed version control systems is that there cannot be a central project repository. This is simply not true – there is nothing stopping you from saying “this copy of the project is the authoritative one.” This means that instead of a central repository being required by the tools you use, it is now optional.

Note:
- Most operations are local
- Central server is not required

## What is Git
By far, the most widely used modern version control system in the world today is Git. Git is a mature, actively maintained open source project originally developed in 2005 by Linus Torvalds, the famous creator of the Linux operating system kernel.

Having a distributed architecture, Git is an example of a DVCS (hence Distributed Version Control System). Rather than have only one single place for the full version history of the software as is common in once-popular version control systems like CVS or Subversion (also known as SVN), in Git, every developer's working copy of the code is also a repository that can contain the full history of all changes.

[Read More](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/what-is-git)